>> Brian Holt: Now we have
unshared the file system.
We've unshared the namespaces, but
we still have a really big problem
left with kind of our solution here.
So imagine that you're
an ecommerce company and
that tomorrow is Black Friday,
Boxing Day, Singles' Day.
As far as I know, those are the three
biggest shopping days in the year.
So pick the one that makes
the most sense to you.
And Bob and Alice are gearing up
to sell all of their widgets or
stickers or whatever.
Everything's all ready to go.
They're all on their shared server.
They all rented out from Bob's
discount basement servers.
And all of a sudden,
everything goes down, everything crashes.
And so Bob and Alice can sell nothing
because their server has crashed and
Eve is on the other side selling her
wares with no problems whatsoever.
They were cherooted, they were unshared,
they were, all that kind of stuff.
So what happened?
Well, if Eve has her own change rooted,
and
she has her own unshared environment,
what happens,
if she just runs a process that just
eats all of the RAM and pins the CPU?
>> Brian Holt: It's a problem, right,
because there's no limit here there's
nothing limiting Alice from saying
l just give me all the CPU and
give me all of the RAM.
And that that's kind of the last problem
that we need to solve before we've truly
containerized this process so that they
really can't mess with each other.
So enter something called cgroups,
or control groups.
Invented at Google, and
they basically say, all right,
here's this isolated environment,
it only gets this much CPU,
it gets this much RAM, and
once it takes all those things, it's done.
It's a methodology of isolating resources,
right?
Resources in the sense of like
computing resources available
to individual process trees.
>> Brian Holt: So one thing I'm
gonna throw out here is this, is,
this course is specifically
using C groups, v2.
The previous version of this
course taught C groups v1.
So if you run this command right here,
grep -c cgroup /proc/mounts.
So if I run this from within here,
you should get 0 or 1.
If you get more than that,
you are on cgroup's, v1, and
you either need to upgrade your
operating system which I left some
instructions for there. Use,
like a more recent version of Linux.
Or if you really, really want to learn
about cgroups v1, which don't because
they're deprecated the first version of
this course did actually talk about them.
So, this entire exercise is done
here in cgroups V1, okay?
>> Brian Holt: Most of you this should not
be a problem because we're kind of past
that point.
>> Brian Holt: Okay?
>> Brian Holt: So yeah, this was invented
at Google because if Maps has some
infinite loop bug, they didn't want it
to bring down Gmail at the same time.
>> Brian Holt: So it's kind of
a strange API to interact with.
Cgroups at least I found
it's a pseudo file system.
So like you like read and
write to files and
then like those are configurations
to govern your cgroups.
It's kind of strange, but, it actually
ended up being kind of convenient.
And it's pretty easy to script
if you want to do that as well.
So yeah, let's just take a look.
So I am going to open my terminal here,
this is still in,
this is the non-unshared environment.
I still have that one up and running
over here, but I'm gonna be running
all this stuff from my
non-change-rooted unshared environment.
So if I go to cd /sys/fs/cgroup and
I look here there is a bunch
of just stuff, right?
These are all the various
different ways of
interacting with cgroups,
which is kind of cool.
So you can actually just say
like cat cpu.max or something.
And it'll tell you what its current
configuration is at the moment.
And you can modify this as
well which is kind of cool.
You actually can't modify this
right now because it's running, but
if it wasn't running,
you'd be able to modify it.
You can see here CPU, a bunch of
these I don't know what they do.
IO is basically how fast you can read and
write to the disc memory,
as you might imagine, governs the RAM.
How many threads it can spawn
that's kind of an interesting one.
We'll actually modify that one later
to prevent a fork bomb attack,
which is pretty cool.
So this is just, right now,
the root cgroup.
So this governs basically everything.
So you can imagine,
in the root cgroup, it has everything,
because you don't want to
artificially limit your root.
That wouldn't make much sense.
But let's go ahead and
make our own cgroup.
So I'm gonna just make a directory.
I'm gonna call what I call it sandbox,
sandbox.
So I now have a directory
down here called sandbox.
I'm gonna cd into sandbox and look,
it has a bunch of stuff in it.
I just made a directory,
I didn't do anything right.
But it knows that if you're
creating a directory in here,
you're making a new cgroup.
But notice that's not all of them and
that's actually kind of a problem for us.
If I cat cgroup.controllers,
you can see it actually doesn't have any
of the controllers, available to it.
But if I go up a directory into the normal
cgroups and I say cgroup.controllers,
you'll see that it has all of
the controllers available to it.
We want to make these controllers
available to the sandbox cgroup,
which, by the way, you can call
your cgroup whatever you want.
I just called it sandbox
because I am not creative and
I think that's what the doc said.
So, being called my cool cgroup or
something like that, whatever you want.
>> Brian Holt: So,
>> Brian Holt: What
we wanna do is, we wanna add our sandbox.
Our unshared environments to
our sandbox.
So what I'm gonna do is,
I'm gonna pull up this,
I'm gonna find our unshared environment,
right?
This bash right here,
this is the one that we want to add.
So it's whatever one that
comes after unshare so
this bash so
we're gonna find 8262 here and
then we're gonna echo that pid into
/sys/fs/cgroup/sandbox/cgroup.procs.
Okay, so now if I go into sandbox and
I cat cgroup.procs, you can see I have
one process that belongs to that cgroup.
We didn't look at this before.
But if you look at cgroup.procs here,
you'll see that there's a bunch
of other processes in here.
But notice 8262 is not in here.
So a process can only belong to
one cgroup, exactly one cgroup.
So if you move it,
If I said the same thing here but
I put it just in the normal cgroup one and
out of the cgroups proc there,
and I said cat this again,
notice that it's there again,
and if I said cat sandbox.
Notice that just by moving it to the other
cgroup, it was smart enough to go and
say, you moved it.
I'm gonna remove it from the other cgroup.
It does that for you automatically,
which is kind of fun.
So I wanna put that back.
Okay, so and
I have this with the cgroup.procs.
Okay, so now this is now in the cgroup.
The cgroup is doing nothing right now,
right?
But it is part of that cgroup.
Okay, now we wanna get those
controllers available to that cgroup,
we can see that this cgroup,
this root cgroup has all of these
controllers available to it and
that our sandbox one does not.
The reason for that is we have one
called cgroup.subtree_control.
This has nothing in it.
And you're basically saying that
I'm not gonna make any of these
controllers available to any
of my children cgroups.
Now, you might say like, okay,
cool, well, let's just add it.
The problem is that as long as the cgroup
has any process that belongs to it,
we can't actually modify.
What subtree controllers are available,
so we're gonna have
to temporarily move all of the processes
into a different cgroup so
that we can activate
the subtree controller.
So we're gonna say make directory and,
we'll just give the full path,
that always helps people.
cgroup/, I called it other-procs,
you can call it whatever you want.
And I'm gonna say cat
/sys/fs/cgroup.proc.
>> Brian Holt: Is it cgroup.procs?
There we go.
Okay, then we're gonna do
echo 1 into other-proc/cgroup.procs and
we're gonna do that one by one for
each one because you can
only do one at a time.
Again, this wasn't made for
handcrafting containers.
What we're doing it's quite unusual so
no one bothered to make this a better
developer experience, but that's fine.
>> Brian Holt: That might have
been the ps aux are the cat there.
Okay, so now that I've done that 1 by 1,
if I say cat /sys/fs/cgroup/cgroup.procs,
I should have nothing in there.
Good.
If you have anything in there,
just make sure you move
those ones as well.
>> Brian Holt: And then I'm just gonna
grab this one because I don't want to type
it all out.
This one right here.
>> Brian Holt: So echo and
then you're just saying add all of these.
So the plus just means add these
to the subtree controller.
>> Brian Holt: And so now if you say Ls
into sandbox, check this out look at all
the stuff that we have in here now
because we added those controllers
to be able to be available
to this child control group.
Now we can really wreak havoc on whatever
processes are contained in the sandbox,
which is exactly what we wanna do.